[THEME MUSIC]
>> Could it be that our body
is a map that can guide us
to experiencing
health or imbalance?
In this episode, we
ask the question,
how can we heal from truth?
Master healer Deborah
King is here with us today
to discuss the chakra system,
defense mechanisms, and most
importantly, healing trauma.
Thank you, Deborah,
for joining us today
on the "Healing Matrix."
>> Great to be here, Sue.
>> So we're going to
start with the beginning,
and perhaps you can share with
everyone a little bit about how
things got started for you.
I know that in
your 20s, you were
diagnosed with a pretty
significant condition
of cervical cancer.
So can you share?
>> I can.
So you know, I was a
hard-charging young lawyer,
just out of law
school, one year out.
And I was going to take the
corporate world by storm, when
I woke up one morning with a
diagnosis of cervical cancer,
and I was like,
whoa, wait a minute.
This isn't part of my game plan.
And it really threw
me off my course.
I stopped and pulled
back and actually took
a look at myself, which wasn't
fashionable back then, Sue.
It's very, very common
now, but then, one--
at least in the corporate
world, one didn't do that.
And I decided that maybe
I had a couple issues.
And that I, before I
address the cancer,
perhaps there were
some preliminary things
I needed to take a look at.
So first, I had to admit
to myself I clearly
had some addiction issues.
I was addicted to
alcohol and Valium.
And so I headed off
to AA and got my hands
around that, my arms around it.
And the next thing I stumbled
on, very serendipitously,
again, not fashionable at
the time, was meditation.
Remember newspapers?
I actually saw an
ad in a newspaper.
Want to learn to meditate?
And I'm like, hmm, that
sounds very appealing.
So I started meditating,
and between the clarity I
got from being clean and
sober and the clarity I
got from meditation, I
stumbled on energy healing.
And by then, I had
realized that there
had to be some connection
between my emotions
and this disease process,
surely, you know,
although it wasn't talked about.
It just seemed logical.
And I had even
started journaling.
I was carrying my
yellow pad around
like a good young
lawyer in pearls,
and I would journal my
emotions during the day.
And about that time, I
stumbled on energy healing.
I had three sessions
with an energy healer
and had what was an amazing
spontaneous remission.
I knew it.
She knew it.
I went back to the teaching
hospital a day or two
later and had them take
a look, and, of course,
they said the proverbial,
whatever you're doing,
keep doing it, because
it appears to be gone.
So that left me with what
made the cancer come?
What made the cancer leave?
Could this phenomena be
reproduced for myself?
What about others?
And even better, what if we
could prevent it all together?
So that's where I
started my journey.
>> Well, thank you
for sharing that.
It's deep to go into these
places within ourselves
and so very important.
And as you said, we didn't know
about that years and years ago.
Now, there was a reference
to childhood trauma
that you made earlier
in conversation.
Is there anything
about that that you
can share with us,
about how that's
connected to the emotions that
were needing to be addressed?
>> Yeah, surely, I had
buried it all pretty deep.
I was conscious of the fact,
I had been sexually abused
as a child, but
like most people,
I didn't want to deal with it.
And that's what I find
working with people
is that a lot of people,
they have memories,
but they hope if they just
push it down somewhere--
but that's what happens when
we push our emotions down
somewhere.
We're storing them
in our body field,
in our body and our
mind, and they're
going to come back
later and haunt
us, which was mine just came
back earlier to haunt me.
And the way I really managed
that, besides energy work,
was I wrote a book
about it, which was
a very cathartic experience.
>> It's kind of like we
have these broad shoulders.
We can manage this,
and so we just go on.
And we don't even realize that
we're stuffing those things
at the time.
We're just moving
on, moving forward,
but that energy is in
there, playing a role,
playing a part in stealing some
of the energy that could be
used for healing automatically.
>> Oh, it's stealing a
major part of your energy.
Perhaps as much as 95%
of your personal energy
is going to maintaining
this secret, a secret you
don't want people to know,
whatever your secret might be.
And it's a huge drain
on your physiology,
and your psychology,
it's a big drain.
>> It's so important for our
viewers to recognize that some
of these habits may be
instilled in one's lifestyle,
and they don't even realize
it, because they've been living
inside of that
for so many years.
It's just how they
function, who they are.
So it's important for us to
make this connection for people
to allow people to recognize,
hey, if I am, you know,
not OK if I don't
exercise, and I'm not OK
if I don't get to
do this, or if I
have to control
my circumstances,
perhaps it's something
like what you're sharing.
That something's
been suppressed,
and this energy is
trying to overcompensate
for that, which could end up in
some pretty serious diagnoses.
>> Yeah, and it's not even
suppression, necessarily.
It's just that for so
many of us, for so long,
we're simply not aware.
We're not aware, and it takes
time to develop self-awareness.
And tools-- and I found that
journaling and meditation
are two of the
best to develop how
do I really feel about
something in all sincerity
without having to
publish my feelings.
That's what I really
encourage people
to do, to get in touch
with their feelings.
>> And you came upon
recognizing this introspection.
You discovered there's some
feelings that I need to feel.
And then you translated
that over time
into working with the chakra
system, as you've mentioned.
Can you just tie that
together for our viewers?
>> Well, let me go back and pick
up a really important step that
was critical, at
least in my history.
So when I left the teaching
hospital in San Francisco
and started down to the
curb with this clean bill
of health-- you know, everyone
wants Western medicine
to say, yes, we see
nothing on the X-ray.
So lucky me, I had that moment.
And as I descended
the steps, I tripped
on the curb over a kiosk.
I had in my mind,
I was thinking,
oh, I'm going to go study energy
medicine with that practitioner
from whom I just had
this amazing remission.
But I tripped over this kiosk,
and as I fell toward the curb,
I saw the words
"healing" on a flyer.
So I pulled the flyer
out, hopped in the cab,
read the flyer on the way back
to the hotel, and it was an--
I'd never heard of-- esoteric,
very small Christian group that
practiced what
they called prayer,
but in fact, sure sounded
a lot like healing.
So just out of curiosity,
I called them up,
and I ended up staying 10 years.
Now, I learned the most
amazing what we would, perhaps,
call remote healing
or distance healing,
from these elderly people,
who lived these quiet lives
of total alignment.
You know, they were just so in
sync with source, with spirit,
and they taught me so much.
And I ended up working
in their institution.
They had an actual institution,
where it was pretty uncanny,
I had months and months, months,
maybe years of preparation
before I got to go work there.
And the people there were sick,
although we never said so.
We didn't wear white,
those of us who were staff.
You arrived every day,
and once a week, you
were assigned a new
guest, not a patient.
And whatever their
state, you had
been taught how to picture
them in their perfection, yeah,
no matter what.
And my very first assignment
was I opened the door
and I walked in, and
I promptly forgot
everything I'd been taught.
Because here was a
woman in her 50s,
who clearly had had a stroke.
So I went Western.
You know, I was like, oh,
my god, she's had a stroke.
I forgot what I'd been
taught and panicked.
But then within a few
minutes, I got back into gear
and sat there and projected
her original perfection back
over her.
It's a pretty
intense experience.
It teaches you unbending intent.
They were extraordinarily
gifted people.
But I ultimately
left after 10 years.
Sadly, I wanted--
I still wanted to study
chakra-based healing.
So I did a 180 and went
over to chakra school,
where I enrolled.
And I'm in the back of the room
minding my own business and not
there very long, and the
teacher goes, you back there,
where'd you learn that distance
healing thing you're doing?
Oh, I said, where I'm
from, we call that prayer.
So you see the overlap.
>> Sure, yeah, and this is
something that is so important
for people to hear--
that we actually
have the capacity
to be a healing presence on the
planet, that everyone has this.
And that as we learn to
come home to ourselves
and to be present in this way,
that many would call prayer,
some would call
ceremonial healing,
but it's actually just
dropping into our true self.
We not only can heal
ourselves, but it
has a healing effect in
our energy field, which
overlaps and can be
projected and can
be embracing of people
thousands of miles away.
It's a new world for
us to be exploring,
and I know our viewers are
very interested in being
a part of that and
engaging in this
and taking healing back
into our own hands,
rather than being dependent
upon medications or all
of the other ways that we
suppress or deny or remain
unaware of the true issues
at hand and our true power.
It's a beautiful thing that
you're bringing forward,
and I'm so happy to
hear you sharing this.
Just you're innocently
sitting there
minding your own business,
and somebody says, hey,
what's that?
What's going on there?
So thank you for pursuing that
and integrating it and sharing
these things with
people that are--
>> Well, I've been teaching this
work now for almost 40 years.
And probably one of the
most significant things
that I try to teach,
and one of the hardest--
I just taught a live
workshop last week--
well, there are two
really significant ones.
One is forging a serious enough
connection to source however
you perceive that.
That whatever you want to call
that force field that surrounds
us and interpenetrates us.
And for some people,
it's their higher self.
For others it's more of a deity.
I mean, it can be just
anything, anything
that works for the person
I'm teaching or helping.
And then the other
fairly tricky part
is merging that
energy with your own.
>> Yes, yes, not being
separate from the source.
Yeah, we're going to get
into some things like that.
So we started to speak
about the chakra system,
and you went off
to chakra school.
And so can you just kind
of bridge for our viewers
the relationship between
working with chakras and healing
trauma, because we
really want people
to understand the
relationship between the two.
>> Sure, so you're basically
setting inside a bubble
of energy right now, your
own personal energy field.
And it encompasses and
interpenetrates your body.
And it's connected to the larger
energy field that encompasses
the entire universe.
And you have focal
points in this field,
in your personal energy
field, that we call chakras.
It's Sanskrit.
It just means "wheel of light."
And there are seven major
ones that run down your spine.
And there are hundreds of minor
ones in your hands and feet
and elsewhere that tend to light
up when you become involved
with this sort of work.
And each chakra is like a
charging station or a way
station, where emotional
material comes in and out.
So chakras are really helpful
to people to learn about
because it's-- they find
out it's their emotions
that's powering everything.
It's not something
else in their body
that's making everything work.
It's actually their
emotional material.
And when we block
our emotions, we
stop the movement of one or
more of those little wheels
of light, those little chakras.
And that impacts our
body pretty soon,
because it's pretty simple.
If you're holding down and
pressing something in a lot
and not going to feel that
heartache, that heartbreak
that you just had, pretty
soon, the energy in your chest
is going to kind
of grind to a halt.
And that's not good
for your arteries
or your veins or your heart,
your heart organ itself.
So you want chakras to be
open, balanced, charged,
and in dynamic interplay
with the environment.
You want movement.
You want energy
coming in and out.
>> As we deal with our emotions
that are untapped or unresolved
or just underneath the
level of consciousness,
into the subconscious
realms of our being,
then it allows this
energy to flow again,
which nurtures
the chakra system,
which allows this
movement to reinstate.
Is this basically
what you're saying.
>> Yeah, to some degree.
Yes, that's correct.
>> OK, let's back up and say,
when trauma occurs and it's not
dealt with in anything more
than a survival response,
because we're trying to--
>> Survive.
>> Survive, get through it.
After that, we get down the
road having survived this
but maybe we haven't
really dealt with it.
We haven't really healed.
We haven't really
come to terms with it.
And in that situation,
what forms of expression
do you see trauma showing
up inside of people
when they haven't dealt with
it on a healing tone level?
>> Well, the easiest one for
most people to grasp right off
the bat is their heart.
Because we can really feel
when we close our heart,
we know we have.
We're like, you know what?
I'm not going to feel that.
I'm never going to acknowledge
that my partner did
that to me, betrayed me
in that way, or my mother,
could be anyone.
And we literally
close the chakra down,
which does not
allow any interplay.
Now, if you look at your
base chakra and compare that,
that's the one that's at
the base of your spine.
You're sitting on it right now.
And typical trauma there
would be an accident.
You're driving
along, and suddenly,
you're either in an accident
or you witness an accident,
either one can do it.
You can even witness
something on television
that's terribly upsetting.
You know, the whole
nation's base chakra
was in upheaval at 9/11.
And we all watched that
on television for days.
And you can feel
your base chakra
when it goes out of whack,
because you pull up.
You pull it up.
And unfortunately, we
disconnect from the Earth,
which is the thing
that's keeping us safe.
So now we feel less
safe, because we just
cranked our base
chakra up, way up here.
And so now we're walking around,
and we know we don't feel safe.
And we need Mother
Earth connected to us,
up through our feet and
up through our base chakra
to feel like we're going
to stay on the planet.
So that's-- base chakra
typical trauma is an accident.
Another typical, classical
one would be any shock.
Any big surprise makes
us pull up and out.
>> We kind of unroot ourselves.
>> Yes, we sure do.
>> We just pick up our roots and
head down the road and go find
someplace safe.
>> And run down the
road, roots in hand.
Not good.
>> Not good.
Well, roots in the
soil, not in the hand.
>> Yeah, just picture
a tree doing that,
and you see the problem
right off the bat.
>> That's not going
to work for very long.
>> So let's just go
to the second chakra.
What if that were happening?
Let's just kind of
work up the system,
and so people can
relate a little bit.
>> Yeah, so I had horrific
second chakra issues,
obviously, with cervical cancer.
And that is often related
to things that are
sexual or sensual or emotional.
So that's your emotional
body is pretty much
sitting in your lower belly.
And that's where we
feel things so strongly.
And for women, the
next thing they know,
they're going to have
some sort of a problem
with their reproductive
system, somewhere.
Can be in the breasts, of
course, but more classically,
it's more likely in the--
>> Deep pelvic area.
>> Yeah, in the
reproductive area.
And for a man, he might
have issues with prostate.
It's really classic.
>> And so it all has to do with
relationships and our wisdom
and allowing this
to be cultivated.
>> Well, it's where we--
the second chakra area
is where we create.
And the next thing you'll
know, if your second chakra
is totally shut down or
dysfunctional or closed,
is that, wow, your
creativity just dries up,
whether you're a chef
or a dancer or a writer.
I mean, it's whatever you're--
you know, an accountant.
Whatever you're
creating suddenly
seems flat, stale, not moving.
>> I've got nothing.
>> Yeah, yeah.
Now, of course, the
second and the fifth,
just to digress for a moment,
the fifth and the second
are really connected,
especially in women,
and classically, you'll see
that the rate of harassment,
sexual harassment of
women is quite high.
And so they'll shut
the thing down so
they won't get harassed again.
And the next thing
they know, they
can't express
through their throat.
Because you create here,
but it has to come out here.
>> So then they can't
speak up for themselves.
They can't state their truth.
>> Or speak anything, right.
>> Yeah, And the third chakra?
Just overview.
>> Well, the third chakra is
all about you and your sense
of self-esteem.
And it's the one that maybe
goes out of balance easiest,
because it's so easy to go--
to be ahead of ourselves
and maybe be a little bit
on push on other
people or be too behind
and let people walking on you.
And I always noticed careers
have a lot to do with this.
Like, I've never seen
a lawyer, frankly,
that didn't have a
little bit of a--
I'll raise my hand
there, a little bit
of an excessive third chakra.
>> Finding power, finding--
externalizing our power and
then charging forth with it
to make things happen.
>> Exactly, make it happen.
Make it happen.
>> Instead of being in flow.
We start to perceive ourselves
as this separate self that
has to, if I'm not going to do
it, you know, who's going to?
So I've got gotta get out
there and make my way, which
depletes us over time, right?
We can't just run that way
as a separate individual.
We get used up.
So then you mentioned the
heart chakra, of course,
and the throat chakra is--
>> All about expressions.
>> Manifesting or
speaking our truth.
>> Now, four out of every five
prescriptions for underactive
thyroid are given to women.
That's a very telling fact.
It is.
>> Shutting down, shutting down.
>> We learn early to
swallow it, not express it.
>> So fortunately,
times are changing.
And people are like, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
I'm not going to not come out.
>> Me too.
>> And so let's go just
quickly and tap the sixth
and the seventh just to
lay this out for people.
>> Well, let me back down just
a little bit here and talk about
the thymus, because I would
be remiss not to mention it.
So the thymus
gland is incredibly
important in the energy
field because not
just the seat of
your immune function,
to me, more importantly, it's
the seat of spirituality.
And so I usually put a
fair amount of attention
on the thymus and develop
it for the individual
and help it expand.
The West would tell
you, it's shrinking
if you're over the age of 10 or
12, but, in fact, it can grow.
It can grow.
>> Yeah, shrinking only because
we're not learning how to use
it.
Shrinking only because
we're rendering
it obsolete by overthinking,
instead of allowing this heart
chakra, the thymus association,
and allowing this to be robust.
We've been ignoring
that it's smart to love.
fortunately, science
is now showing us
that it is, in fact, a
brilliant thing to engage in,
regarding healing and
creating a life that
serves us and serves everyone.
OK, so can we go to the--
>> The third eye?
>> -- the third eye.
>> The infamous third eye.
>> The sixth chakra.
>> Yes, the sixth chakra.
So all about vision and
your future and planning
and your intuition.
I mean, it's just such a wide
open field of possibilities.
And so many-- we haven't
talked about specific disease
processes that match each
one of these energy centers,
but there are, of course.
But the sixth and seventh have
maybe the most shocking number
of--
20 different things that can
go wrong if you close yourself
down up here, between the pineal
and the parathyroid and all
these glands, I
mean, you can really
shut yourself down there.
By refusing to see.
I will not see that.
I will not see
that is the message
of a dysfunctional sixth.
>> Yes, yes, and the pituitary
that is involved is this master
gland.
So all the chemistry just
starts to get imbalanced,
and the next thing you
know, we're rolling out
in all kinds of
symptom patterns,
all because we're not
allowing intuition
and receptivity of
this divine energy,
of this cosmic, bigger
bubble of energy
that you were
describing earlier.
>> And just to talk about
symptoms for a moment--
I always tell people it always
starts with something simple.
You know you're not quite OK,
and you'll go into the doctor.
And you'll say,
something's just off.
I can tell.
And while they can't find
anything quite that early,
but you know.
You know, maybe it started with
you're not sleeping the same
or you're not eating the same or
you have just slight headaches.
So your body sends
you information.
It's trying to
communicate with you,
but you're just a little too
early for standard testing
to pick up on it.
Not too early for an energy
healer to pick up on it
but a little too
early for an X-ray.
>> Yes, and I love this--
or even blood tests.
We can pick up on this energy
before a blood test will even
show something.
So they go and they
do these tests,
and they say there's
nothing wrong.
And then we go home and we shut
down our own intuition more
because they didn't
agree with it.
So they told us it didn't exist.
It's all in my head.
It's not all in our head.
It's in our energy
body, and our head
is starting to perceive that.
And this is why I'm so
thrilled that you're
doing the work that
you're doing and teaching
people how to start to assess
and to sense and to feel
and perceive this, because
this is the true master healer.
The true healer within.
>> And it's so easy to teach
because they already know how
to do it.
And for thousands of years,
we've known how to do it.
We've just shut it
off and shut it down.
>> In our culture, definitely,
we're just not tapped in.
>> By the time you're seven,
we've taught this little child
that he or she should--
you think you see grandmother
over there, but she's deceased.
You don't really.
And so there goes
that, you know?
Shut that one down.
And by the time, again,
we stop using anything
that could be,
remotely be construed
as beyond normal and we go just
to the standard five senses.
But in fact, it's
so easy to turn
on a whole roomful of people to
their higher sensing abilities
because they're just latent.
They're in their
cellular structure.
It's in our DNA, those memories.
So boom, they, all
of a sudden, they
can hear more than the normal
realm or see more or feel more.
>> Right, it's like a super
sensory self starts to open up.
>> Yeah, it's so exciting for
them to be awake and alert
and realize they have all of
these abilities as a natural
healer.
They are a natural born healer.
They can heal themselves, and
with not that much training,
they can heal others.
>> Yes, they have to drop
into their bodies and root
themselves.
Can you just repeat again a
little bit about this root
chakra, the first chakra?
Because it seems that if
we get started right away
uprooting and
heading down the road
in a protective, guarded
state, that we don't really
stand a chance to open up
to this super sensory being
that we truly are.
So just for our viewers'
sake, can you just
circle back around and just
remind us some of the things
that the first chakra is.
>> I can and maybe even go to
the first level of the field
to start with as a concept.
So your energy field has
levels and these chakras
are sitting in them.
There's one cupped in each
of the levels that matches.
And the first level
of your energy field
is only a half inch to an inch
outside your physical body.
Again, it interpenetrates.
So it's a little
beyond our linear--
>> Yeah, there's overlap, yeah.
>> Yeah, our linear thinking
can't quite take it it,
but we say interpenetrate,
and then you get it.
And that first level matches
your physical body to a T,
and there's that
base chakra sitting
right at the base
of the spine, in it.
There are so many
ways to keep your base
chakra alive and well--
from any kind of
movement indoors,
dancing or yoga or stretching,
or any kind of movement,
outside, any connection
to Mother Earth.
I am always urging people
to save some time out
of the gym for outside,
because you really
need some connection
to the horizon,
to the sun, the moon, the
trees, and the ground.
We need that, and we're
getting away from it.
Especially children, they hardly
get any time outdoors anymore.
So if you're a gym
rat, just take 10 or 15
minutes at the end
of your workout
and save it for outdoors.
>> Yes, I couldn't agree more.
Thank you so much for
reminding people of that.
We're so computered
up and video gamed in
that we're unplugging
without even realizing.
We're never developing
those roots to begin with.
Awesome.
Thousands of Deborah
King's students
have used Deborah's work
to heal themselves and have
become healers as well.
Take a look at their stories.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> When I was a
senior in high school,
my boyfriend at the time, we
were in a really horrible car
accident that left him with
a traumatic brain injury
so severe that the only thing
he could do was blink his eyes--
one long blink for "no" and
lots of blinks for "yes."
>> One of the most traumatic
experiences I had in my life
was going to the hospital
to see my sister.
I had no idea what
happened to her,
but I know she was attacked.
A few days later, I was
out getting groceries
and on my way home, I
seen a cop car parked
on the street in
front of my house.
And he informs me that they
had arrested my husband
for sexually
assaulting my sister.
>> It was a really difficult,
the most difficult experience
I've ever had in my life, to
see somebody suffering so much
and not being able, no matter
how hard or what my intention
was, to take away his
pain or to heal him.
>> I knew that I
had to be in charge,
and I knew that I had to do
something to keep my family
safe and keep my family together
and figure out what I'm going
to do.
And an answer
came, and I decided
I was staying with my husband.
>> After the seven years, I
really wanted to get married
and have children.
And I met my
husband, and I am not
surprised that at
32 years old, I
woke up with a one-year-old
and three-year-old and breast
cancer.
>> I stayed home as a
stay-at-home mom for over 20
years, making sure that my
kids had some type of an anchor
of safety and support
from my presence,
even though I had a great
deal to deal with during those
years.
>> Looking back, I know
that what had happened
to my physical body was that
the emotions that I had stuffed
deep down for so long, the
feeling of guilt for surviving,
the feeling of shame for walking
on and deciding that I wanted
to live my own life.
>> I was having a recurring
issue with rages behind closed
doors in my marriage.
I was diagnosed with PTSD,
and then I started counseling.
>> And I knew that I
was desperate to heal.
And I wanted to heal.
And I knew that there
had to be another way.
And that's when I
reached out and googled
and searched how to heal.
And I came across
Deborah King's program.
>> I remember hearing Deborah
King on "Hay House Radio"
and I listened to her
perspective on healing.
And I just started to
devour every course
and every workshop.
>> She has this really--
just this program of healing
that really, really works.
>> And also, through
Deborah King's program,
I was able to speak my
truth about the trauma,
and it's just completely
changed my life.
>> I was able to reclaim
my sense of power.
I was able to be
joyful without guilt.
I was able to love
myself and give love
in a much more balanced way.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> Amazing, Deborah.
>> I have some very
gifted graduate students.
>> You've been such a catalyst
for so many amazing healing
journeys.
>> Yeah, but they do all
the hard work, you know?
They do the heavy lifting,
and I'm just the midwife.
>> Yes, we have one
of Deborah's students,
who is now a healer
herself, with us today--
Cathy Gabrielson.
Welcome, Cathy.
>> Oh, I'm so happy to be here.
>> Can you share with
us, specifically,
what tools Deborah
has taught you?
>> The tools came their way
to me when I needed them.
So particular things would come.
For instance, she has this
technique, or at least
that's how I describe
it, as this journaling,
meditating, connecting
with nature,
forgiving, and letting go.
And it was really--
what it enabled me
to do was figure out who I was.
Because I was so wounded,
and part of my wounds were I
just didn't know who
I was or how I felt.
So when I started to study under
Deborah and do her programs,
I really, just piece by piece,
just beginning with journaling
or meditating, I
just was becoming
to know a little bit
more about myself
so that I actually could heal.
So it was a process.
It was a process.
>> It's a symphony of things
that we have to draw together
and start to
animate differently.
Now, I wanted to follow
up with something.
Years later, you developed
sepsis and almost died.
Can you just share a little
bit about what happened there?
What was going on?
>> I think by the time
the sepsis actually came,
I think I had just been
filled with so much trauma,
so much pent up emotion that I
didn't even realize was stored
in my body.
And that time, I was just away
on vacation with my family.
And it was actually seven
years after my breast cancer.
And I was on a beach
chair and then ended up
with a massive
infection in my implant
and ended up having
to have that emergency
surgery to have it removed.
And that was kind
of the last bit
that I think my body could take.
I knew when I was in
the hospital with sepsis
that I didn't think I had any
more strength within me to do
any more.
And I actually felt like I had
served enough and done enough.
And it would be OK
if I actually left.
But sure enough, I
came back, and I was--
that's when I was the
most broken, I think.
And I remember when I
told my husband, I said,
I think I'm going down.
And I don't know who's
going to pick me up.
And it's interesting that I
said that, because in the end,
no one would have been
able to pick me up.
I had to learn the
tools, like Deborah
said, to do the work
ourselves to pick myself up,
so that I could move on and be
who I need to be in this world.
>> Yes, sometimes when it seems
there's no one there for us,
it's because we're supposed
to recognize that we are more
empowered than we
thought we were.
And fortunately,
you had the tools
to work with to be able to
translate that into a success.
Was there a relationship there
between your heart chakra
and your second
round of healing?
And what was that relationship?
Even though you
were cancer free,
what do you feel
was still happening
there that needed to unfold
for you to be completely whole
and well?
>> It was really, over the
course of all the years,
it was the storing of the
emotions would just take bit
by bit away from me.
And my heart was most
affected, because in all of it,
I just hadn't forgiven
myself for being sick
and for affecting other people.
I mean, my role, I
thought, in this world
was to serve other people.
And here I am
constantly being sick
and creating these
situations that
impose on somebody else's life.
And then that was
like a double whammy.
You know, my heart
hurt even more.
>> Can you speak to us a little
bit about forgiveness on any
level, self-forgiveness,
forgiveness of circumstances?
I think this is such
a valuable aspect
of what we have as a capacity
for self-healing to do.
Can you just speak
to our audience
about the role of self-care
and self-forgiveness?
>> That's a really
good thing to share.
forgiveness wasn't about
forgiving other people,
in particular.
It was about forgiving and
letting go the situation
and what I was
carrying with it in me.
>> Beautiful.
Kind of setting
ourselves free inside
to allow the healing to happen.
Deborah, what was it
like to work with Cathy?
>> Oh, Cathy is just
stunning to work with,
and she's raised a couple
of things that are really
important here.
One of the biggest blocks
to moving an individual up
spiritually, which is
really what I most excel at,
is their inability to
forgive themselves.
It's just like this weight.
I mean, I can see it.
I can sense it, and it
just gets in the way.
And that's one of
the main things
I do is help people
pass that hurdle.
And then the other
thing I want to mention,
and I'm sure Cathy
would back this up,
is that we work often with
people who are in no state,
ready to be self-empowered.
We have to actually
step in and help them.
We have a lot of clients
and students, who--
they're pretty desperate.
And I understand that.
I've been there.
I know what that feels like.
So does Cathy.
And so we meet
them at that level
and produce our own
energy that we're
pulling from the
source beyond ourselves
to transmit to this person.
So it's all about attracting,
conducting, and transmitting
universal energy, the
God force, to someone
who really, really needs it.
And then later, you
get them on their feet
and start talking
about self-empowerment,
but you don't start there.
And at that point, I
start looking at them
pretty hard to see
if I can get them
to self-forgiveness,
which is often
the cause of the whole problem.
We blame ourselves.
>> A rejection of
ourself in the world.
There's something not
right, and it must be
me, that kind of disposition.
So Cathy, you have
obviously awakened
to more and more and
more of your true self
and are building the circuitry
to sustain that in your life.
And we're so grateful for you
sharing your experience with us
today, because there are many,
many people out there that
need to know that
this is possible,
and you're making that easy.
So thank you so much
for being with us today.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank Deborah.
>> Yeah, fun seeing you.
- Bye-bye.
So why do so many women
develop breast cancer?
>> Well, you know, other than
the environmental causation,
which is getting more
and more significant,
the most common issue I
see is we take on too much
responsibility.
You know I'm going to
be the perfect mother,
the perfect employee, the
perfect volunteer, and then
the next thing you know,
boom, you kind of collapse.
So it's a weight
on the shoulders
and the shoulders are
adjacent to the breasts.
And it's just too much.
It's just too much, too
much for the whole system.
>> We're taking on energies
that are not our authentic self.
If we're trying to be the
best this and the best that,
we're in constant
state of comparison.
So we're shutting down
our own authenticity.
Our true, heartfelt
version of life
doesn't get to
have a life at all.
So these energies
get suppressed,
and heart chakra-related,
as you're sharing.
>> Yes, but I don't want
to oversimplify the way
the chakras work,
because, of course,
it can be a problem
with an adjacent chakra.
It isn't necessarily right where
the affected disease process
is.
>> A confluence of energies
that are from our whole system
at this layer of our being that
is either operating in unison
and in integration or it's not.
And when it's not, it can
show up in so many ways.
>> Now, you also
work with chelation.
Can you--
>> Chelation is a kind
of an old-fashioned,
I call it Energy Healing
101 sort of a technique.
I teach it because I like to
teach students every aspect,
so they get a broad
spectrum of techniques.
Essentially, you're clearing,
charging, and balancing
each chakra in sequence.
It just has a fancy name.
>> Yeah, right.
Can you share with our
viewers just a little bit
about what chelation therapy
is, because many may not
have been exposed to that?
>> Well, again, it's the
practitioner using universal
energy coming through themselves
and then their hands to clear,
charge, and balance each chakra
in sequence from the bottom
to the top.
>> So and there are other forms
of chelation therapy that are--
>> Unrelated
>> --unrelated-- intravenous
expression of high doses
of vitamin therapies and those
kinds of cleansing agents
through the body.
So I just wanted to--
>> Yeah, you can always
spot the difference,
because in that
kind of chelation,
you're in a lounge chair
with a needle in your arm.
>> Yeah, you definitely
know something different is
happening right here.
It involves needles.
>> That is not energy healing.
It might be very
healing, though.
>> That will not slip
by your-- you will know
if that's what's happening.
So you've also mentioned
characterology.
One of your students
spoke about this.
Could you just say a
little bit about that?
>> Well, I love to teach it.
It's in the psychology
field, actually.
But I teach it early
on in my program
because I think it's so
helpful to just everyone.
So it's a really interesting
field that resurfaced in the US
and in the West in the '50s.
But I tracked it all the
way back to the Vetas which
is my field of expertise,
and then I saw it again
in the Greeks and the Romans.
They knew about it.
So basically, it's being able
to look at someone's body type,
their body as an
adult, and figure out
what defenses they used before
they were seven years old,
and hence, their body looks the
way it does now as an adult.
So when we're kids, starting
when we're in the womb,
we are exposed to unpleasant
events, and we go into defense.
We decide to be someone we're
not to protect ourselves.
So these defenses
are not who you are.
They are who you are not.
That's what's so
interesting about them.
And the first one that
develops and, again,
in the womb or right at
birth, due to a trauma
like your mother is
having a difficult birth,
there is some kind
of crisis going on
in utero or at the birth,
like maybe a flood or a fire
or an earthquake or a
war, something that's
throwing the mother
totally out of balance,
and hence, you, the infant.
And so you remember
where you came from,
because you just came from
there a few months before.
>> It hasn't been so long.
>> It hasn't been that long.
And so you know how
to go back there.
So you go, I'm out of here.
And you go right up out
of your crown chakra,
your consciousness, and
zoom back somewhere else,
where you are unsafe.
And so you continue this
feeling of lack of safety.
You exaggerate it now by
not being present at all.
So the names of--
they're states of mind.
And these defenses are taken
from the psychology world,
so they're confusing.
So don't be offended.
They call that schizoid,
that first type.
But it just means that you've
spun out and you've split.
And those people tend to look--
I can't do it
anymore, but I used
to be able to do it really well.
They tend to have weak joints.
They're hyperextensive.
They usually can pop joints.
They are elongated.
Their body's kind of elongating,
kind of airy looking.
And it's usually
within, either in utero
or within two weeks of birth.
The next one, the next
defense that you can develop
is if you're deprived
in some way of what
you think of nurturance.
It could be you're not nursed
enough or not often enough
or on the wrong
schedule or somehow
feel abandoned or rejected.
You know, maybe the
mother or other caregiver
just isn't tuned into you.
Maybe it's that
time of those days
where they said keep the infant
down the hall in the crib.
>> Cry it out
>> Let him cry, yeah,
something like that.
And those people typically end
up with very pleading eyes.
You can see it.
They're one of the easiest
to see as an adult.
>> Like a wanting.
>> A very wanting look.
Yeah, please, fill me.
I'm not full.
>> I'm here.
Help.
>> While the first type's
message is it's not safe here.
The second one is screaming
there's not enough for me.
There's not enough for me.
No one wants to admit
it, to being it.
But the third type-- third
type's very popular, especially
with men.
They love to stand
up and tell you
that they're the
psychopath, which
is the third type,
which develops
around the age of three to five.
And that type develops when
the parent of the opposite sex
betrays you.
And this happens to kids.
We just forget.
But the little girl thought
she was Daddy's girl,
and she was going to marry him.
And then she finds out, no,
he's going to stay with Mother.
The little boy thought he was--
>> Momma's favorite.
>> --Momma's favorite, and then
Momma has another baby or does
something else.
And so he feels very rejected.
And that defense, they get
a puffed-up upper body.
And you know kind of a--
man or woman.
A big chest look.
They look very, very
depleted in their lower legs.
Their message is it's
my way or the highway.
Kill or be killed--
that's their favorite saying.
And look out, look out.
Now, again, these
defenses only arise--
most people don't live
in them in adulthood.
I could name some politicians
who do, but it's not common.
Most of us flit in
and out of them.
And the interesting
thing is if you
become aware you're doing
it and just laugh about it,
you should find it humorous.
That, oh, my god, there I
am again, kill or be killed,
you know?
>> In an unconscious
kind of way.
>> Yeah, well, become conscious
of it, you can get rid of it.
>> Yeah, it just starts
to dissolve into you.
>> Interesting thing--
it can just disappear,
and your body shape will change.
That's what's so interesting
is I actually see people
becoming less--
more of themselves, more
authentic, and less looking
like that body type.
Even after, in their 40s or 50s,
when it's pretty well-formed.
I'll go all the way
to the end, though.
So that's the third
type, the upper chest.
There are
disadvantages to acting
in this inauthentic way, because
it affects us physically.
So if you're scooting
out of your consciousness
all the time, you're more
likely to have accidents.
That's the first one.
If you're pleading
for help all the time,
that type is very
inclined toward diabetes.
The third type, the
psychopath, is very inclined
to cardiovascular
events, heart problems.
The fourth type is the hardest
to spot, the masochist--
they're very hard to see, but
they have a compressed look--
usually short neck,
compressed upper body.
They just look very compact.
That's also around
the age of five,
when the parent
won't allow autonomy.
You have to eat what I say.
You have to, every
moment, do as I say.
That child feels
explosive but contains it
and hence, looks kind of--
>> Like they're holding in.
>> Well, no they have the
top-down look, and again,
unhealthy, inauthentic.
It's not who they are.
And they usually will react
by having a moment of rage.
And then the last time, my
personal fave, is your rigid.
They always look great.
They have no clue how they feel.
They've divorced
themselves early on,
usually before the
age of six or seven,
when they were told to be an
adult. You know, Daddy died.
A little boy's been
told, be a man now.
He has to put away the
things of the child.
How unfair.
And so his reaction will be
to take his true feelings
and completely divorce
himself from them
and become this
perfect individual.
And they're very inclined
toward cardiovascular events,
because they're so lonely
because they're so not in touch
with themselves.
>> They're not in the body.
>> But they look wonderful.
>> Yeah, they're
not in the body.
They're just running the show.
>> It's a really
fun way to teach.
It's very interactive,
and people really
get a lot out of it.
They see themselves.
They see their significant
other, their mother-in-law.
They see everybody.
And then you learn how better
to manage a relationship.
Because like, for
example, if you're
dealing with someone who is
inclined to kill or be killed,
if they are pushed,
then don't push.
You wouldn't push
that individual.
>> And it also, for me, it
allows us to understand someone
has an operating system
that they're plugged into.
It's a defense mechanism
only because they're trying
to survive something still.
So it allows compassion
to kind of roll
into a scenario, where you
might previously have gotten
offended by a way of being.
You realize, oh, my
god, they're just
doing that because they're not
in touch with who they really
are.
They're not in touch
with their true source.
And it allows us to remain
open and available as a healing
presence instead of
being reactive to it
and furthering it, you know?
So where can people learn more
about what you have to share?
>> Oh, just drop
by deborahking.com.
>> Deborahking.com.
Fabulous.
Thank you so much for sharing
your amazing information,
your collection of wisdom
over your lifetime,
and for being
intimate and sharing
your deep personal process--
>> Thanks for having me.
>> --of how you came
to be all that you are.
So thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> I have great respect
for the work that we do.
And I hope that those of
you that are watching this
can understand the power
of energy medicine.
As we begin to understand
the chakra system,
we can see how our unresolved
traumas and emotions
cause dysfunction.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
Thank you for watching
"Healing Matrix."